**Authors:** Stefano Mezzini, Chris H. Fleming, Kirk Safford, Michael J. Noonan

**Abstract:** Recent widespread warming due to climate change has caused many terrestrial mammals to change when, how, and where they move. These changes in movement behavior have had cascading effects on individuals' fitness and habitat selection as well as consequences at the population, community, and ecosystem levels. Previous research has quantified changes in mammalian movement behavior, but few have predicted how climate change will affect the movement behavior and distribution of mammals by the end of the century. Thus, it is currently unclear how species will respond to rising temperatures and whether the areas we currently protect will be capable of sustaining present ecosystems by the end of the century. We address this knowledge gap by using Continuous-Time Movement Models, Hierarchical Generalized Additive Models, and Hierarchical Resource Selection Functions to quantify the effects of temperature on mammal's probability of movement, speed, and habitat selection. We show that temperature is a strong determinant of mammalian movement behavior and habitat selection, but its effects are species-dependent, and there are no common trends across all species. Leveraging the estimated responses, we predict when, how, and where mammals will move in BC in the current century under four Shared Socioeconomic Pathways. In light of Canada's commitment to protect 30% of its land by 2030, we demonstrate that the areas we currently protect may not be able to sustain the same species by the end of the century. Thus, we suggest decision-makers begin protecting habitats proactively by accounting for future changes in environmental conditions and habitat suitability rather than simply relying on present-day conditions.
